Add performance improvement blog (#2522)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-01-03-opensearch-performance-improvements.md

### Log analytics

For log analytics use cases, we used the `http_logs` workload from the [OpenSearch Benchmark](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/index/)---a macro-benchmark utility within the OpenSearch Project---to replicate some of the common query operations. Here are the key highlights:

* `match_all` queries with sorting showed a more than 20x performance boost across the board because of multiple improvements made in the area (see [#6321](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/6321) and [#7244](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/7244)) and other Lucene enhancements.

* Queries for ascending and descending sort-after-timestamp saw a significant performance improvement of up to 70x overall. The optimizations introduced (such as [#6424](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/6424) and [#8167](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/8167)) extend across various numeric types, including but not limited to `int`, `short`, `float`, `double`, `date`, and others.

> * Other popular queries such as `search_after` saw an about 60x reduction in latency, attributed to the improvements made in the area involving optimally skipping segments during search (see [#7453](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/7453)). The `search_after` queries can be used as the recommended alternative to scroll queries for a better search experience.

Reviewer: Can we add a line item after:

* Implementation support for match_only_text field to optimize on storage and indexing/search latency for text queries is in progress ([#11039](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/11039)).

### Time series

In the context of aggregations over range and time-series data, we used the `nyc_taxis` and `http_logs` workloads from OpenSearch Benchmark to benchmark various popular use cases. Here are the key highlights:

* Range queries, popular for aggregation use cases, exhibited about 50%--75% improvement, attributed to system upgrades such as Lucene (from v8.8 in Elasticsearch 7.10.2 to v9.7 in OpenSearch 2.11) and JDK (from JDK15 in Elasticsearch 7.10.2 to JDK17 in OpenSearch 2.11).

* Hourly aggregations and multi-term aggregations also demonstrated improvement, varying from 5% to 35%, attributed to similar time-series improvements discussed previously.

> * `date_histograms` and `date_histogram_agg` queries exhibited either comparable or slightly decreased performance, ranging from 5% to around 20% in multi-node environments. These issues are actively being addressed as part of the ongoing project efforts (see [#11083](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/11083)).

Reviewer: Also a line item under Time Series:

* For the date histogram aggregations, there are upcoming changes aiming to improve the performance by rounding-down dates to the nearest interval (such as year, quarter, month, week, day) using SIMD ([#11194](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/11194)).

Author: Done

---
layout: post
title: An update on the OpenSearch Project’s continued performance progress through 2.11 
authors:
  - sisurab
  - pallp
  - dagney
  - rishabhsi
date: 2024-01-03
categories:
    - technical-posts
    - community

> meta_keywords: 

Reviewer 2: Please add the following meta: 

**meta_keywords:**  OpenSearch performance improvements, OpenSearch roadmap, high volume indexing, low latency search
**meta_description:** Learn more about the OpenSearch Project roadmap and how the project improved the performance of its core open source engine to drive down latency and improve efficiency.

### Indexing performance investments

Some of the key OpenSearch features this year delivered efficiency improvements in indexing performance. OpenSearch rearchitected the way indexing operations are performed to deliver **_segment replication_**---a physical replication method, which replicates index segments rather than source documents. Segment replication, a new replication strategy built on Lucene’s [Near-Real-Time (NRT) Segment Index Replication API](https://blog.mikemccandless.com/2017/09/lucenes-near-real-time-segment-index.html) was released as generally available in OpenSearch 2.7. Segment replication showed increased ingestion rate throughput of up to 25% when compared to default document replication. You can find a more detailed look at segment replication in the OpenSearch [segment replication blog](https://opensearch.org/blog/segment-replication/). 

> In version 2.10, OpenSearch introduced **_remote-backed storage_**, allowing users to directly write these segments to object storage, such as Amazon-managed S3 or Oracle Blob Storage, to improve data durability. With remote-backed storage, in addition to storing data on a local disk, all the ingested data is stored in the configured remote store. At every refresh, the remote store also automatically becomes a point-in-time recovery point, helping users achieve a recovery point objective (RPO) of zero with the same durability properties of the configured remote store. To learn more, see the OpenSearch [remote-backed storage blog](https://opensearch.org/blog/remote-backed-storage/). 

Author: @getsaurabh02 Is it Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) Object Storage or Azure Blob Storage?

* Queries for ascending and descending sort-after-timestamp saw a significant performance improvement of up to 70x overall. The optimizations introduced (such as [#6424](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/6424) and [#8167](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/8167)) extend across various numeric types, including but not limited to `int`, `short`, `float`, `double`, `date`, and others.

* Other popular queries such as `search_after` saw an about 60x reduction in latency, attributed to the improvements made in the area involving optimally skipping segments during search (see [#7453](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/7453)). The `search_after` queries can be used as the recommended alternative to scroll queries for a better search experience.

* Implementation support for `match_only_text` field to optimize on storage and indexing/search latency for text queries is in progress (see [#11039](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/11039)).

### Time series

> In the context of aggregations over range and time-series data, we used the `nyc_taxis` and `http_logs` workloads from OpenSearch Benchmark to benchmark various popular use cases. Here are the key highlights:

Reviewer: These refer to queries where users aggregate over date ranges, so I would keep it as "over"

In the upcoming releases, we will continue to improve the core engine by targeting specific query types. We will also undertake broad strategic initiatives to further enhance the core engine through Protobuf integration, query rewrites, tiered caching, and SIMD and RUST implementations. In addition to improving the core engine, we are committed to improving OpenSearch tooling capabilities. One such improvement that we're currently working on is the query insights functionality, which helps identify the top N queries that impact performance. Additionally, OpenSearch is working on making benchmarks easier for community members to use. For a comprehensive list of investments and additional improvements, or to provide feedback, please check out the OpenSearch [Performance Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/153/views/1) on GitHub.

This concludes the main summary of OpenSearch performance improvements to date. The following appendix sections provide the benchmarking details for readers interested in replicating any run.

* * *

## Appendix: Detailed execution and results

> If you're interested in the details of the performance benchmarks we used, exploring the methodologies behind their execution, or examining the comprehensive results, keep reading. For OpenSearch users interested in establishing benchmarks and replicating these runs, we've provided comprehensive setup details alongside each result. This section provides the core engine performance comparison between the latest OpenSearch version (OpenSearch 2.11) and the state just before the OpenSearch fork, Elasticsearch 7.10.2, with a mid-point performance measurement on OpenSearch 2.3. 

Reviewer: Can we add a line at the end of this paragraph:

"Also, we've identified items in the [performance roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/153/views/1) that require active enhancements due to observed regressions in specific areas."

Reviewer: ohh looks like its merged! 👍

        <td><code>scroll</code></td>
        <td>755.18</td>
        <td>593</td>
        <td>642.79</td>
        <td>-8%</td>
        <td>15%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="light-green-clr">
        <td><code>term</code></td>
        <td>9</td>
        <td>7</td>
        <td>7.14</td>
        <td>-2%</td>
        <td>21%</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Elevating performance with new features available in OpenSearch 2.11

The following sections present OpenSearch 2.11 features that improve performance.

### LogByteSize merge policy

In the realm of log analytics, the Tiered merge policy has been a cornerstone for efficient shard merges. In OpenSearch 2.11 we introduced the LogByteSize merge policy. This new approach consistently merges adjacent segments, proving especially advantageous for time-series data characterized by timestamp sorting and minimal timestamp overlap between segments.

The following are the key findings from this exercise.

* Timestamp queries with ascending sort had over 75% improvement. This transformation is attributable to the impactful contribution of enhancement [#9241](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/9241).

> * About 40% enhancement in descending sort timestamp queries, surpassing tiered merge policy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* About a 40% enhancement in descending sort timestamp queries, surpassing the Tiered merge policy.
```

> * Use cases around ascending and descending sort with_after_timestamp saw regression which is a known case for smaller workload with this merge policy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Use cases around ascending and descending sort with _after_ timestamp saw regression, which is a known case for smaller workloads with this merge policy.
```

> * Use cases around ascending and descending sort with_after_timestamp saw regression which is a known case for smaller workload with this merge policy.

Reviewer 3: This reads as though either "a" or "the" should precede _after_.

Author: Changed to "workloads"

> * Other common use cases for log analytics, such as Multi-term aggregation, hourly_agg, range, and scroll queries exhibited comparable performance, with a subtle improvement of less than 5% attributed to the new segment merge policy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Other common use cases for log analytics, such as multi-term aggregation, hourly_agg, range, and scroll queries exhibited comparable performance, with a subtle improvement of less than 5% attributed to the new segment merge policy.
```

#### Detailed results: OS 2.11 Tiered merge policy vs OS 2.11 LogByteSize merge policy

**Setup**: 3 data nodes (r5.xlarge) with 32 GB RAM and 16 GB heap. 3 cluster manager nodes (c5.xlarge) with 8 GB RAM and 4 GB heap. Index settings: 3 shards and 0 replicas, `max_segment_size`: 500 MB, `refresh_interval`: 1 s.

> **`http_logs` workload results:** The following table illustrates a benchmark comparison for the `http_logs` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with Tiered merge policy vs. LogByteSize merge policy. It includes the 90th percentile of `took` time latency measurements for each (p90) and the observed percentage improvements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**`http_logs` workload results**: The following table provides a benchmark comparison for the `http_logs` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with the Tiered merge policy vs. the LogByteSize merge policy. It includes the 90th percentile of `took` time latency measurements for each (p90) and the observed percentage improvements.
```

        <td><code>desc_sort_with_after_timestamp</code></td>
        <td>35</td>
        <td>130</td>
        <td>-271%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>hourly_agg</code></td>
        <td>2816</td>
        <td>2809</td>
        <td>0%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>multi_term_agg</code></td>
        <td>2739</td>
        <td>2800</td>
        <td>-2%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>range</code></td>
        <td>7</td>
        <td>8</td>
        <td>-14%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>scroll</code></td>
        <td>349</td>
        <td>344</td>
        <td>1%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>term</code></td>
        <td>7</td>
        <td>6</td>
        <td>14%</td>
    </tr>
</table>

### Zsandard codec compression

This addition empowers OpenSearch users with the new Zstandard compression codecs for their data. Users can specify `zstd` or `zstd_no_dict` in the `index.codec` setting during index creation or [modify the codecs for existing indexes](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/im-plugin/index-codecs/#changing-an-index-codec). OpenSearch will continue to support the existing `zlib` and `lz4` codecs, with the default as `lz4`.

> The following sections contain benchmarking results, representing the average over 5 days of data from nightly runs using OpenSearch Benchmark.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following sections contain benchmarking results representing the average of 5 days of data from nightly runs using OpenSearch Benchmark.
```

> The following sections contain benchmarking results, representing the average over 5 days of data from nightly runs using OpenSearch Benchmark.

Reviewer 3: "of over 5 days"?

#### Highlights

Here are the key highlights:

* A notable increase in the ingestion throughput, ranging from 5% to 8%, attributed to the new `zstd` codec. This enhancement owes its success to codec-related pull requests ([#7908](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/7908), [#7805](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/7805), and [#7555](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/7555)).

> * About 30% reduction in on-disk data size, surpassing the default `lz4` codec for unparalleled efficiency, all while maintaining a near-identical CPU utilization pattern compared to the default compression.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* About a 30% reduction in on-disk data size, surpassing the default `lz4` codec for unparalleled efficiency, all while maintaining a near-identical CPU utilization pattern compared to the default compression.
```

* The search p90 latencies remained virtually unchanged, with negligible differences of less than 2% in a few areas.

#### Detailed results: OpenSearch 2.11 default (`lz4`) compression vs. OpenSearch 2.11 `zstd` compression using multiple shards

> **Setup:** 3 data nodes (r5.xlarge) with 32 GB RAM and 16 GB heap. 3 cluster manager nodes (c5.xlarge) with 8 GB RAM and 4G Heap. Index settings: 3 shards and 0 replicas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Setup**: 3 data nodes (r5.xlarge) with 32 GB RAM and 16 GB heap. 3 cluster manager nodes (c5.xlarge) with 8 GB RAM and 4 G heap. Index settings: 3 shards and 0 replicas.
```

> **Indexing throughput results (docs/sec)**: The following table presents the indexing throughput comparison of the `http_logs` and `nyc_taxis` workloads for OpenSearch 2.11 with default vs. `zstd` codec enabled, including its percentage improvement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Indexing throughput results (docs/sec)**: The following table provides an indexing throughput comparison of the `http_logs` and `nyc_taxis` workloads for OpenSearch 2.11 with the default codec vs. the `zstd` codec enabled and includes the percentage improvement observed when using `zstd`.
```

Author: @getsaurabh02 Could you confirm that this suggestion is accurate?

Reviewer: looks good to me

> **Indexing throughput results (docs/sec)**: The following table presents the indexing throughput comparison of the `http_logs` and `nyc_taxis` workloads for OpenSearch 2.11 with default vs. `zstd` codec enabled, including its percentage improvement.

Reviewer 3: Confirm that my changes retain the intended meaning.

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Workload</th>
        <th>OS 2.11&mdash;default codec (mean_value)</th>
        <th>OS 2.11&mdash;zstd codec (mean_value)</th>
        <th>% improvement (vs. default codec)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr class="light-green-clr">
        <td><code>http_logs</code></td>
        <td>209,959.75</td>
        <td>220,948</td>
        <td>5%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="light-green-clr">
        <td><code>nyc_taxis</code></td>
        <td>118,123.5</td>
        <td>127,131</td>
        <td>8%</td>
    </tr>
</table>

> **`nyc_taxis` search workload results**: The following table illustrates a benchmark comparison for the `nyc_taxis` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with default codec vs. `zstd` codec enabled, including percentage improvement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**`nyc_taxis` search workload results**: The following table provides a benchmark comparison for the `nyc_taxis` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with the default codec vs. the `zstd` codec enabled and includes the percentage improvement observed when using `zstd`.
```

> **`nyc_taxis` search workload results**: The following table illustrates a benchmark comparison for the `nyc_taxis` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with default codec vs. `zstd` codec enabled, including percentage improvement.

Reviewer 3: Confirm that my changes retain the intended meaning.

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Operations</th>
        <th>OS 2.11&mdash;default codec (p90_value)</th>
        <th>OS 2.11&mdash;zstd codec (p90_value)</th>
        <th>% improvement (vs. default codec)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>autohisto_agg</code></td>
        <td>216.75</td>
        <td>208</td>
        <td>4%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>date_histogram_agg</code></td>
        <td>211.25</td>
        <td>205.5</td>
        <td>3%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>default</code></td>
        <td>8</td>
        <td>7.5</td>
        <td>6%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>distance_amount_agg</code></td>
        <td>5,012</td>
        <td>4,980</td>
        <td>1%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>range</code></td>
        <td>74.5</td>
        <td>77.5</td>
        <td>-4%</td>
    </tr>
</table>

#### Detailed results: Index data size on disk (bytes) with `zstd` compression using a single shard

> **Setup:** OpenSearch 2.11.0, single node (r5.xlarge) with 32 GB RAM and 16 GB heap. Index settings: 1 shard and 0 replicas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Setup**: OpenSearch 2.11.0, single node (r5.xlarge) with 32 GB RAM and 16 GB heap. Index settings: 1 shard and 0 replicas.
```

> **Data size of disk results (bytes)**: The following table illustrates a benchmark comparison of the on-disk data size for the `http_logs` and `pmc` workloads for OpenSearch 2.11 with default vs. `zstd` codec enabled, including percentage improvement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Data size of disk results (bytes)**: The following table provides a benchmark comparison of the on-disk data size for the `http_logs` and `pmc` workloads for OpenSearch 2.11 with the default codec vs. the `zstd` codec enabled and includes the percentage improvement observed when using `zstd`.
```

> **Data size of disk results (bytes)**: The following table illustrates a benchmark comparison of the on-disk data size for the `http_logs` and `pmc` workloads for OpenSearch 2.11 with default vs. `zstd` codec enabled, including percentage improvement.

Reviewer 3: Confirm that my changes retain the intended meaning.

<table>
    <tr>
        <th></th>
        <th>Default compression (bytes)</th>
        <th>ZSTD (bytes)</th>
        <th>ZSTD_NO_DICT (bytes)</th>
        <th>ZSTD improvement (vs. default codec)</th>
        <th>ZSTD_NO_DICT improvement (vs. default codec)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr class="green-clr">
        <td><code>http_logs</code></td>
        <td>20,056,770,878.5</td>
        <td>15,800,734,037</td>
        <td>16,203,187,551</td>
        <td>21%</td>
        <td>19%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="green-clr">
        <td><code>pmc</code></td>
        <td>20,701,211,614.5</td>
        <td>15,608,881,718.5</td>
        <td>15,822,040,185</td>
        <td>25%</td>
        <td>24%</td>
    </tr>
</table>

### Concurrent search improvements (*Experimental in 2.11*)

> OpenSearch users can now achieve better execution speed with concurrent segment search launched as experimental in OpenSearch 2.11. By default, OpenSearch processes a request sequentially across all the data segments on each shard during the query phase of a search request execution. With concurrent search, every shard-level request can concurrently search across segments during the query phase. Each shard divides its segments into [multiple slices](https://opensearch.org/blog/concurrent_segment_search/), where each slice serves as a unit of work executed in parallel on a separate thread. Therefore, the slice count governs the maximum degree of parallelism for a shard-level request. After all the slices finish their tasks, OpenSearch executes a reduce operation on the slices, merging them to generate the final result for the shard-level request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenSearch users can now achieve better execution speed with concurrent segment search, launched as experimental in OpenSearch 2.11. By default, OpenSearch processes a request sequentially across all the data segments on each shard during the query phase of a search request execution. With concurrent search, every shard-level request can concurrently search across segments during the query phase. Each shard divides its segments into [multiple slices](https://opensearch.org/blog/concurrent_segment_search/), where each slice serves as a unit of work executed in parallel on a separate thread. Therefore, the slice count governs the maximum degree of parallelism for a shard-level request. After all the slices finish their tasks, OpenSearch executes a reduce operation on the slices, merging them to generate the final result for the shard-level request.
```

The benchmark results presented below show the benefits of concurrent search in action. These are the averages of data generated from over 4 days of nightly runs using OpenSearch Benchmark.

#### Highlights

Here are the key highlights:

> * An increase in performance with aggregate queries on workloads such as `nyc_taxis` workload, showcasing an improvement ranging between 50% to 70% over the default configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* An increase in performance with aggregate queries on workloads such as the `nyc_taxis` workload, showcasing an improvement ranging between 50% and 70% over the default configuration.
```

* The log analytics use cases for range queries demonstrated an improvement of around 65%.

> * Aggregation queries with hourly data aggregations, such as those for the `http_logs` `hourly_agg` workload, demonstrated a boost of up to 50% in performance.

Reviewer 3: "such as those for the `hourly_agg` operation on the `http_logs` workload" (`hourly_agg` is not a workload)?

Author: @getsaurabh02 Could you confirm that we can make this change?

Reviewer: looks good to me, OR "such as those for the `http_logs` workload"
yes - hourly_agg is not a workload)

* Comparable latencies for auto or date histogram queries, with no noteworthy improvement or regression in performance.

> * `multi_term_agg`, `asc_sort_size`, `dec_sort_size` and `scroll` queries showed regression. To delve deeper into the intricacies, the concurrent search contributors are proactively addressing this in the upcoming OpenSearch 2.12 GA release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `multi_term_agg`, `asc_sort_size`, `dec_sort_size`, and `scroll` queries showed regression. To delve deeper into the intricacies, the concurrent search contributors are proactively addressing this in the upcoming OpenSearch 2.12 GA release.
```

#### Detailed results: OpenSearch 2.11 with concurrent search enabled vs. disabled

**Setup**: OpenSearch 2.11.0 single node (r5.2xlarge) with 64 GB RAM and 32 GB heap. Index settings: 1 shard and 0 replicas.

> **`nyc_taxis` workload results:** The following table illustrates a benchmark comparison of the `nyc_taxis` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with concurrent search disabled and enabled (with 0 slices and with 4 slices). It includes the 90th percentile of `took` time latency measurements for each (p90) and the observed percentage improvements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**`nyc_taxis` workload results**: The following table provides a benchmark comparison of the `nyc_taxis` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with concurrent search disabled and enabled (with 0 slices and with 4 slices). It includes the 90th percentile of `took` time latency measurements for each (p90) and the observed percentage improvements.
```

        <th>Operations</th>
        <th>CS disabled (p90_value)</th>
        <th>CS enabled&mdash;0-slice (p90_value)</th>
        <th>CS enabled&mdash;4-slice (p90_value)</th>
        <th>% improvement (with 0 slices)</th>
        <th>% improvement (with 4 slices)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr class="green-clr">
        <td><code>autohisto_agg</code></td>
        <td>575</td>
        <td>295</td>
        <td>287</td>
        <td>49%</td>
        <td>50%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="green-clr">
        <td><code>date_histogram_agg</code></td>
        <td>563</td>
        <td>292</td>
        <td>288</td>
        <td>48%</td>
        <td>49%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>default</code></td>
        <td>6</td>
        <td>6</td>
        <td>5</td>
        <td>0%</td>
        <td>17%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="green-clr">
        <td><code>distance_amount_agg</code></td>
        <td>15,043</td>
        <td>4,691</td>
        <td>4744</td>
        <td>69%</td>
        <td>68%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="green-clr">
        <td><code>range</code></td>
        <td>201</td>
        <td>73</td>
        <td>77</td>
        <td>64%</td>
        <td>62%</td>
    </tr>
</table>

> **`http_logs` workload results:** The following table illustrates a benchmark comparison of the `http_logs` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with concurrent search disabled and enabled (with 0 slices and with 4 slices). It includes the 90th percentile of latency measurements for each (p90) and the observed percentage improvements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**`http_logs` workload results**: The following table provides a benchmark comparison of the `http_logs` workload for OpenSearch 2.11 with concurrent search disabled and enabled (with 0 slices and with 4 slices). It includes the 90th percentile of latency measurements for each (p90) and the observed percentage improvements.
```

        <td>26</td>
        <td>34</td>
        <td>28</td>
        <td>-31%</td>
        <td>-8%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>desc_sort_with_after_timestamp</code></td>
        <td>63</td>
        <td>61</td>
        <td>63</td>
        <td>3%</td>
        <td>0%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="green-clr">
        <td><code>hourly_agg</code></td>
        <td>8180</td>
        <td>3832</td>
        <td>4034</td>
        <td>53%</td>
        <td>51%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="orange-clr">
        <td><code>multi_term_agg</code></td>
        <td>9818</td>
        <td>40015</td>
        <td>54107</td>
        <td>-308%</td>
        <td>-451%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>range</code></td>
        <td>15</td>
        <td>12</td>
        <td>13</td>
        <td>20%</td>
        <td>13%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="orange-clr">
        <td><code>scroll</code></td>
        <td>179</td>
        <td>375</td>
        <td>212</td>
        <td>-109%</td>
        <td>-18%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td><code>term</code></td>
        <td>3</td>
        <td>3</td>
        <td>3</td>
        <td>0%</td>
        <td>0%</td>
    </tr>
</table>

* * *

> *We would like to take this opportunity to thank the OpenSearch core developers for their contributions to the technical roadmap. We sincerely appreciate all the suggestions from Michael Froh, Andriy Redko, Jonah Kowall, Amitai Stern, Jon Handler, Prabhakar Sithanandam, Mike McCandles, Anandhi Bumstead, Eli Fisher, Carl Meadows, and Mukul Karnik towards writing this blog. Credits to Fanit Kolchina and Nathan Bower for editing and Carlos Canas for creating the graphics.*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*We would like to take this opportunity to thank the OpenSearch core developers for their contributions to the technical roadmap. We sincerely appreciate all the suggestions from Michael Froh, Andriy Redko, Jonah Kowall, Amitai Stern, Jon Handler, Prabhakar Sithanandam, Mike McCandles, Anandhi Bumstead, Eli Fisher, Carl Meadows, and Mukul Karnik in writing this blog post. Credits to Fanit Kolchina and Nathan Bower for editing and Carlos Canas for creating the graphics.*
```

> *We would like to take this opportunity to thank the OpenSearch core developers for their contributions to the technical roadmap. We sincerely appreciate all the suggestions from Michael Froh, Andriy Redko, Jonah Kowall, Amitai Stern, Jon Handler, Prabhakar Sithanandam, Mike McCandles, Anandhi Bumstead, Eli Fisher, Carl Meadows, and Mukul Karnik towards writing this blog. Credits to Fanit Kolchina and Nathan Bower for editing and Carlos Canas for creating the graphics.*

Reviewer 3: Confirm that "McCandles" shouldn't be "McCandless".

authors:
  - sisurab
  - pallp
  - dagney
  - rishabhsi
date: 2024-01-03
categories:
    - technical-posts
    - community
meta_keywords: 
meta_description: 
has_science_table: true
---

OpenSearch is a community-driven, open source search and analytics suite used by developers to ingest, search, visualize, and analyze data. [Introduced in January 2021](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/stepping-up-for-a-truly-open-source-elasticsearch/), the OpenSearch Project originated as an open source fork of Elasticsearch 7.10.2. OpenSearch 1.0 was released for production usage in [July 2021](https://opensearch.org/blog/opensearch-general-availability-announcement/) and is licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) (ALv2), with the complete codebase [published to GitHub](https://github.com/opensearch-project).  The project has consistently focused on improving performance of its core open source engine for high volume indexing and low latency search operations. OpenSearch aims to provide the best experience for every user through driving down latency and improving efficiency.

> In this blog, we'll share a comprehensive view of strategic enhancements and features in performance that OpenSearch has delivered to date. Additionally, we'll provide a forward look at the [planned roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/153/views/1) of improvements in open source. We'll compare the core engine performance of the latest OpenSearch version (OpenSearch 2.11) to the state just before the OpenSearch fork, Elasticsearch 7.10.2. We'll highlight continuous advancements made in the OpenSearch core engine, ongoing feature enhancements centered around the popular log analytics and search use cases, and plans to drive improvements for which we are seeking community collaboration.

Reviewer: Can we add below sentence at the end attributing the community:

"These progressions were realized through collaborative efforts with the community, and OpenSearch is actively seeking to enhance community engagement, specifically in the field of improving performance."
